Blog post introducing kwok (#39653)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2023-03-01-introducing-kwok/index.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Introducing KWOK: Kubernetes WithOut Kubelet"
date: 2023-03-01
slug: introducing-kwok

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
canonicalUrl: https://kubernetes.dev/blog/2023/03/01/introducing-kwok/
---
```

> **Author:** Shiming Zhang (DaoCloud), Wei Huang (Apple), Yibo Zhuang (Apple)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Authors:** Shiming Zhang (DaoCloud), Wei Huang (Apple), Yibo Zhuang (Apple)
```

## What is KWOK?

KWOK stands for Kubernetes WithOut Kubelet. So far, it provides two tools:

`kwok`
: `kwok` is the cornerstone of this project, responsible for simulating the lifecycle of fake nodes, pods, and other Kubernetes API resources.

`kwokctl`
: `kwokctl` is a CLI tool designed to streamline the creation and management of clusters, with nodes simulated by `kwok`.

## Why use KWOK?

KWOK has several advantages:

- **Speed**: You can create and delete clusters and nodes almost instantly, without waiting for boot or provisioning.
- **Compatibility**: KWOK works with any tools or clients that are compliant with Kubernetes APIs, such as kubectl, helm, kui, etc.
- **Portability**: KWOK has no specific hardware or software requirements. You can run it using pre-built images, once Docker or Nerdctl is installed. Alternatively, binaries are also available for all platforms and can be easily installed.
- **Flexibility**: You can configure different node types, labels, taints, capacities, conditions, etc., and you can configure different pod behaviors, status, etc. to test different scenarios and edge cases.

> - **Performance**: You can simulate thousands of nodes on your laptop without great consumption of CPU or memory resources.

Reviewer 2: great -> significant

  - You can test how your controller interacts with other components or features of Kubernetes by enabling different feature gates or API versions.

## What are the limitations?

KWOK is not intended to replace others completely. It has some limitations that you should be aware of:

- **Functionality**: KWOK is not a kubelet and many behaviors may be different, such as pod lifecycle management, volume mounting, device plugins, etc. It only simulates updates of node status and pod status.
- **Accuracy**: KWOK does not reflect the actual performance or behavior of real nodes under different workloads or environments. It only approximates some behaviors based on simple formulas.
- **Security**: KWOK does not enforce any security policies or mechanisms on simulated nodes. It assumes that all requests from the kube-apiserver are authorized and valid.

## Getting started

If you are interested in trying out KWOK, please check its [documents] for more details.

{{< figure src="/blog/2023/03/01/introducing-kwok/manage-clusters.svg" alt="Animation of a terminal showing kwokctl in use" caption="Using kwokctl to manage simulated clusters" >}}

## Getting Involved

> If you're interested in future development and discussions on KWOK, you can get involved in SIG Scheduling through the following ways:

Reviewer 2: Again, don't need to mention scheduling, kwok is aimed for general use scenarios, not just scheduling

```suggestion
If you're interested in participating in future discussions or development related to KWOK, there are several ways to get involved:
```

> - Slack: [#kwok], [#kwok-dev], [#sig-scheduling] (visit https://slack.k8s.io/ for a workspace invitation)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Slack: [#kwok] for general usage discussion, [#kwok-dev] for development discussion.
```

- [SIG Scheduling]
- Open Issues/PRs/Discussions in [sigs.k8s.io/kwok]

We welcome feedback and contributions from anyone who wants to join us in this exciting project.

[documents]: https://kwok.sigs.k8s.io/
[sigs.k8s.io/kwok]: https://sigs.k8s.io/kwok/
[#kwok]: https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/kwok/
[#kwok-dev]: https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/kwok-dev/

> [SIG Scheduling]: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/sig-scheduling/README.md

Reviewer 2: remove it.
